[docs-beta] ingesting data with dagster (#23930)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/guides/ingestion-transformation/ingesting-data.md

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>
- Familiarity with [Assets](/concepts/assets)
</details>

## How Dagster helps with data ingestion

As a data orchestrator, Dagster helps with data ingestion as it can:

- **Automatically kick off computations that ingest data**, thus removing the need for manual intervention
- **Coordinate data ingestion with downstream data transformation,** such as rebuilding a set of dbt models after the upstream data they depend on is updated
- **Represent ingested data assets in an asset graph**, which enables understanding what ingested data exists, how ingested data is used, and where data is ingested from

## Orchestrating data ingestion tools

Dagster integrates with a variety of data ingestion tools, enabling you to sync diverse data sources into your data warehouse tables using pre-built connectors. With these integrations, Dagster allows you to:

- Represent ingested tables as assets within the Dagster asset graph
- Trigger asset materializations that automatically invoke these tools to initiate data syncs

Dagster currently integrates with the following data ingestion tools:

- [Airbyte](/todo)

> - [DLT](/todo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [dlt](/todo)
```
lowercase

- [Fivetran](/todo)
- [Sling](/todo)

## Writing custom data ingestion pipelines

> Writing code in a language like Python to ingest data into a platform is also a common approach. This is especially useful when you have unique data ingestion requirements that aren'yarn lint addressed by existing tools, or when you prefer to keep your platform streamlined without adding new tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing code in a language like Python to ingest data into a platform is also a common approach. This is especially useful when you have unique data ingestion requirements that aren't addressed by existing tools, or when you prefer to keep your platform streamlined without adding new tools.
```
